i thank you so much for joining us today
while we wait it would be super fun if
you could introduce yourself
in the chat just give your name any info
you want specifically where you're from
we've got folks from all over the world
right now i am joining you from
beautiful boulder colorado in the us and
i'd love to hear
where you are from
[Music]
and if you've just joined us thank you
so much we're just
gonna hang out for another couple of
minutes while we wait for everyone
to come in we'll get started in about
four or five minutes past the hour in
the meantime
please introduce yourself in the chat
let everybody know where you're from and
maybe what you're working on or what
excites you about ipfs we've got folks
from all over the world
in this meeting right now which is
pretty fabulous so welcome and we'll get
started in just a minute
[Music]
and our worldwide representation of ipfs
only gets better and better i'm looking
at the chat it is so cool to see folks
from all
over the planet here right now
on this friday and or saturday depending
on where you are i guess
we are gonna get started in about a
minute
so if you haven't dropped your name
or where you're from in the chat we'd
love to hear from
[Music]
all right everybody it is five minutes
past
the hour so let's go ahead and get
started
thank you so much to everybody for
joining us
today for our ipfs meetup of our first
edition of 2021 y'all we made it through
2020 that alone is an achievement
and there's all sorts of cool stuff to
share with you
today uh quick introduction next slide
if you do not mind
that is me my name is jessica's showing
my pronouns she and her
i am part of the ipf ipfs
web browsers and gui working group
pleased to join you today from sunny
boulder colorado
next slide please we have a few
bits of administrative and courtesy
reminders that we want to go over before
we get started we are
totally thrilled that you were here
which is absolutely wonderful thank you
for taking time out of your busy day
especially on a friday
saturday a couple of things that we want
to go over before we start
it is very important to remember that
this event does abide by the ipfs
community code of conduct as does
everything else that happens at ipfs we
take this super seriously
because we enjoy being good humans and
enjoy being kind to the humans around us
there is a link to the code of conduct
from our wonderful jen turner in the
chat if you want to click through
that if you have any questions at any
point
just drop them in the uh actually we're
using the chat box today we don't have a
separate q a box today so just drop them
in the chat
and somebody will get back to you um
we'll answer
questions in sort of an asynchronous
manner after presentations if you have
questions about an individual
presenter's
topic also you can check out all kinds
of other good things
on our ipfs youtube page including past
events like this one past
meetups as well as many of our working
group working sessions and
tutorials lectures all sorts of other
good stuff so it's super super cool
that link is also in the chat and if you
watch today's meetup and it inspires you
and you want to give a talk whether it's
a detailed talk or
a lightning talk something short and
sweet we would love to have you uh it's
super easy to get that ball rolling just
email
ipfs dash community
protocol.ai and someone will get right
back in touch
with you to chat about scheduling and
all that so we have a super great agenda
for you today
next slide please i will show you
so uh first up we've got a 2021
planning update from the ipfs core team
specifically the wonderful david choi
and khadir tapal
here to talk about some of the good
things that are going to be going on in
2021 and how our planning is rolling
along
after that we have a talk from dr ian
preston
about paragus the private web following
on from
that victor from humanoid is going to be
talking with us about human beings as a
trust layer on top of ipfs
and we'll be wrapping up the main
portion of our meetup today
with matt wisniewski talking about
decentralized peer-to-peer
communications he's coming at us
talking about vault 74. so without any
further ado
i will hand things over to david and
kadir to talk about
ipfs planning thank you jess
all right hey hi i'm khadir khadiri to
paul from dishware in germany
and i'm the ipfs growth and product
development lead
and um if you can go to the next slide
in november 2020 now
we asked ipfs community the ipfs
community
and that includes um people at
protocol labs we asked them to propose
themes for us to focus on in 2021
we wanted to hear from the community and
the community really delivered
it's been pretty incredible to see the
breadth and depth of the proposals
and the passion of those who
advocated for them and argued for those
proposals
so many many thanks to everyone who has
contributed
the feedback has really blown us away
um so now we wanted to give a quick
update on the whole process
so david and i will talk a little bit
about what um
what happened uh what's currently
in progress and what to look forward to
so this will be a bit of a short update
and then we'll hopefully give you
a bigger one on the next meet up
next slide please
all right so as i just said we
the first part of this was really
reaching out to the community
and being really broad in what we asked
what
what we consider as our focus for 2021
so that that part is done now and
we have and we've already moved on to
analyzing that content
that that feedback um to
first identify a couple of questions
that we need to answer
um regardless of of the focus area so
things that cut across a bunch of
different proposals
so we've identified those questions and
have worked on
trying to get answers to those questions
another thing that we've done is we've
looked at
um initiatives that we might prioritize
regardless of the focus area and we'll
i'll come back to those later but there
are things that
we would do regardless of which
item we pick or which themes we pick to
work on so there
are of course things that are ongoing
but there are also things that we know
we want to improve
um and uh so we've
started prioritizing those initiatives
as well
and then um as a part of this uh i know
the ipfs version one was already
one of the themes and one of the
proposals uh but of course
um it it includes ipfs version one can
include
a lot of the proposed items um
and so what we have started uh working
on
and this is one of those key questions
is
what would what would an ipfs version
one look like
uh what would be a part of it and what
would be
what would it entail uh aside from just
um from code changes um so
those are some of the things that we
have already started looking into
and um i'll let david talk a little bit
about what we are currently working on
awesome thank you kadir i'm david nice
to meet you all who
who haven't met yet um and i'm located
in in phoenix arizona uh so it is pretty
pleasant weather
uh next slide please
yeah so um just to talk through what's
going on right now i know uh
we're already almost a month into 2021
and um we're looking to nail down what
the
the project's plan for the year is
uh and then help share that with you all
and get feedback on what that is so
um right now we're exploring some use
cases uh
where you know there's so many cool
things that were suggested by the
community
oh so many directions we could head um
to help narrow that down
um having a few use cases in mind to
actually
work towards getting fit between
some sort of market and then what ipfs
brings to the table
well what is a great way to narrow
things down it moves the ball
in other ways where across many
different use cases you can see
improvements and
trying to figure out what that set looks
like um
to focus our efforts in 2021 is a goal
right now
um as a part of this once we have some
use cases in mind especially
taking the the working
set of requirements for ipfs v1 and
refining what those are kind of
narrowing the scope as much as possible
because there's so many different ways
it can go and then
getting feedback from everyone in the
community sharing that with y'all
and coming to consensus on what that
looks like another
a key part of this and then from there
we can
really sift through and determine the
priority areas to tackle
in 21 2021 and a key part of this is
figuring out
how to do so so again and there's so
many
cool ideas that were proposed by the
community and uh it's
oh it's kind of like efficiency is of
the essence
up front in 2021 we want to work on the
things that kind of
unlocks the ability for everyone in the
community to
to focus on the areas and and help
contribute in ways that are most helpful
for
for the way they're using ipfs and um
you know how do we do that
and uh how how do we unblock and unlock
the full potential of the community uh
that's also very much top of mind for us
so
um like could your mentioned a lot of
exciting stuff going on
and uh you know stay tuned uh we should
have
a very tangible stuff for you all soon
could be throwing back to you
thank you david um let's go to the next
slide
so yeah let's talk a little bit about
what to expect uh what can you expect
from here
um so as david said we've already
started looking into narrowing the focus
a little bit
um and one one thing that we have seen
is that the proposals have uncovered
opportunities um for for so many
different audiences
and um of course one thing we already
know is that we're not going to focus on
just one single audience
in 2021 will hopefully be able to
offer something that actually addresses
many different audiences across
different use cases
and one part of that one way to actually
achieve that
that we are seriously looking into at
this point is
um making ipfs more modular
uh so that you can um contribute to
parts
more easily but also use parts of ips
ipfs more easily that are more relevant
to you
um so the idea is that
[Music]
we structure ipfs in a way that makes it
easier
um to push the things forward
that people are protocol labs people in
the community really care about
where it makes sense for them and ipfs
as a library is is one thing that we are
seriously looking into to make that
possible
because yes from all the proposals it's
clear there are so many different
audiences
and pro collabs on its own isn't going
to be able to
address every single one of them um
we have to somewhat prioritize but this
is this is a
this is one way we can actually um
open up possible the opportunity for
people who really care about certain
things
um to to move forward on them to push
them forward
uh for for for us not to be the
bottleneck to those things
so that's something that you can look
forward to
another thing um i mentioned this
at the beginning is there are things we
know we want to make better
um and that's regardless of the focus
area that we choose
there are things around um the
observability
around performance around
docs and the whole developer experience
that we know are currently not as good
as they could be
and that are
areas where we definitely could do
better and those are things that we do
want to improve on regardless of um
the 2021 focus area um
so we've started prioritizing some of
those a lot of those came out of the
uh proposal process and um
so that that's something that you can
expect to happen regardless of
what we focus on um
and then um as david said we're
currently
right in the middle of some of those
things uh
which means that there will be an update
um and hopefully soon but
i expect uh the next update in the next
ipfs meetup
where we'll hopefully be able to talk
more confidently about
the path that we would like to
prioritize
across the proposals that have come in
and the feedback that we have and the
conversation that we've had in the
meantime
and then hopefully we'll be able to
present something
that that's a little bit more long-term
but yeah hopefully that's going to be
our next update
all right thank you so much to katie
and david if you have any questions
about anything
in this or any other presentation just
drop them in the chat we will answer
those asynchronously
um and as kadir said look for more
information as our planning process
continues
in the coming weeks and big big thanks
to everybody who has been
part of this process who has submitted
their ideas and their proposals
it means more than than you might even
know
so thank you so much for that moving on
i want to introduce dr ian preston
of pyrgas to talk to us about the
private web
ian are you good to go i believe so
can you hear me yeah wonderful
excellent uh i'm sorry about screen
share as well yep
how's that looks great
awesome so i'd like to start by
sharing our vision for the private web
but what do i mean by the private web
imagine a web where you don't have to
log in separately to every different
site
and where you own your identity
a web that's not constantly surveilling
your every action
and using it against you imagine owning
the data that you create in apps and
being able to use
the data securely in other apps this is
our the vision of the private web that
we're trying to build with pierce
currently it's easy for anyone to share
media websites
or apps privately or publicly in
progress
in any browser without any extensions
pagos is a protocol for private storage
social media
and applications built on top of ipfs
this includes user controlled identity
sandboxed applications where no
surveillance is possible
untrusted service and quantum resistance
most of us are exclusive so we care a
lot about that
and protected metadata which we'll be
talking more about later
let's start with a quick overview of the
architecture
the physical architecture is quite flat
every pair gos instance has an embedded
idfs instance
and these all communicate over bitswap
the dht
and peer-to-peer streams there's also a
pki
which stores its data in in those ipfs
instances
but the critical thing that we rely on a
lot is
that this doesn't depend in any way on
dns
or the tls certificate authorities of
course if you want to access
a pagos server over dns you can if you
want but the protocol doesn't rely on it
the logical architecture is also quite
simple
each user has a home server which is
responsible for storing their data
they can have as many mirrors as they
like and each home server can store as
many users as it can handle
so with within their home server each
user has
a set of key pairs which which are used
to sign
the merkle roots of data that's in ipfs
and these these are called we call these
mutable pointers
they're similar to ips but with slightly
different properties
and the only other thing we have is a
mailbox
so this is a blinded encrypted mailbox
for reasons which we'll discuss later
and it's not
that's the one thing that's not sold in
ipfs which is to do with the the quantum
resistance
pagos breaks down into several truss
boundaries
so these are mutually untrusting regions
so if any data or hashes
cross one of these boundaries then it's
verified by the recipient whether it's a
hash or a signature
so for example the pagos client doesn't
trust the pig or server
the server itself doesn't trust ibfs
and apps are also sandboxed off from the
client
so these sandboxes these are actually
operating system level processes
and you need to do that if if you care
about things like side channels
from things like meltdown inspector
this arrow on the left is an interesting
one so this is
the case of an s3 direct s3 block store
which we'll talk about later
but in that case the block store itself
actually verifies hashes
of writes from the client
but we'll see more about those details
later
during file upload a file is split into
five megabyte chunks each of these are
independently encrypted
and then split into fragments which are
then stored in ipfs
and the the critical benefit we get from
this well one of the critical benefits
we get from this
is chunking is it allows us to hide the
size of files
so the different chunks of a file can't
be linked together
from the server's perspective so you end
up
with a maximum of five meg size for a
chunk
and actually we go even further so we we
pad the files before encryption
to a multiple of 4k uh so then you end
up
the only possible sizes of a chunk in
the in the entire system
uh there's five meg divided by 4k which
is 1280.
so we we try to keep the entropy very
very low
we do access control and it's serverless
access control
so it's capability based every file or
directory
has several symmetric keys associated
with it
and if you want to grant someone access
to
an entire sub tree or just one file you
can do that by just sharing the key with
them
and then they can decrypt the file uh or
if it's just a metadata key they can
decrypt the path
and the metadata including the name
there's also a right crit tree which is
a bit simpler
but still also based on symmetric keys
and the one property both these
trees have
which we care a lot about is to do with
quantum resistance
so for the for the privacy of your files
we only rely on
symmetric encryption and hashing and
neither of these
are broken by a quantum computer they're
a little there you get a 2x speed up but
nothing significant
whereas asymmetric encryption is totally
broken
so that's why we don't rely on that
anywhere
in in these criteria structure
the other thing we care a lot about is
metadata so there's a long list of
things the server can't see
file names paths sizes and properties
things like the mime type and
modification time
even whether something is a file or a
folder
and because of that the server also
can't see the directory topology
can't it can't see the number of files
or the number of directories or some of
those
but the other kind of metadata we care
about is the social side of things
so who has access to a file can't be
seen by the server nor
not even how many people have access to
a file
and along similar lines the social graph
so that's where the mailbox i mentioned
earlier
is blinded so the server can't see who's
sending a follow request to whom
and so your social graph is totally
under your control
the main thing the server can see is an
upper bound on the total amount of space
used and if you care about that you can
just fill it with with empty data
so that's the architecture now for some
highlights from 2020.
at the beginning of 2020 we already had
photo galleries
video and music streaming for
arbitrarily large video
a text editor and a pdf viewer
in 2020 we added to do boards or kanbans
so you can plan whatever it is you're
trying to plan privately
and it fast encrypted file search so
that that sounds trivial but
in an end-to-end encrypted system it's
actually pretty hard to
to efficiently do file search but we're
pleasantly surprised with how how fast
it turned out to be
now the the following three things we
haven't actually announced yet so
i'm giving you the the inside scoop uh
but you can already try them out on our
beta server right now
the first of these is the calendar so
it's a private calendar
the model is every event is stored as a
standard
ical file in your picos space and this
means we can leverage
the the sharing capabilities of pagos so
you can share individual events
with your friends or indeed generate a
secret link to an event to share with
anyone
the second cool thing from 2020
was peer-to-peer web hosting so this
this lets you basically host
a website it's a static website from
direct directly from a folder in your
plus space
you get instantaneous updates and
there's no no cryptocurrency required
for publishing or updating and it's
basically a single click to publish
once you've done so you can view your
your website via any public peer goss
gateway
so we've set one up at pagos.me and it
would be
your username.pagos.me but a much cooler
way to view it
is the peer-to-peer way so if you run
pagos locally
then you can view it at
username.pagos.localhost
and if you're viewing it that way then
it's totally independent of dns
and you've got the secure authenticated
peer-to-peer delivery
of peer goss and ipfs
but wait there's more the next thing was
a social fee
so we've been building up to this one
for a while so this is
it's a it's a feed of of things that
have been shared with you by people that
you follow in pagos
and obviously it's end-to-end encrypted
so it's 100
client-side assembled as me this means
that there's no ai
and no ads
as well as all these applications we've
we've made some big server-side
improvements as well in 2020 so the
first one of these was
the thing i mentioned earlier the direct
s3 block store
so in normal operation a pergos client
gets all its data from
from the pagos server that it's talking
to
but with a with a direct s3 block store
the client still authorizes
reads and writes with the pagos server
but it then talks directly to s3
for both reads and writes now reads you
can see how that might work but writes
sounds a bit tricky
especially when there's multiple users
around but the way it works is
the block stores content addressed
that's the way ipfs uses it
um and what we do is that when the when
the page server authorizes a url
it includes the hash of the thing the
file that's being written
and s3 verifies that so s3 will reject
an invalid write
where you try to change the data
maliciously and
the the obviously the cool thing about
this is it reduces the bandwidth
requirements of the paragraph server by
about 100x
so a very small server can suddenly host
a lot more a lot more users or a lot
more
a lot more data
the next cool thing server side was
fully concurrent garbage collection
so you you reach a point uh especially
with
um with a remote block store like s3
where
garbage collections can take up to a day
and during this time other pin
operations can't proceed
so there are a few features of our
design that
allowed us to get around this uh the
first one is a transaction api
uh which helps us prevent the blocks
from being gc before they've been pinned
actually we don't actually need we
realize we don't even need to pin them
at all
anymore because all our pins are
implicit from the mutual pointers that i
mentioned
um and so during during writes
everything's happening client-side so
the server doesn't really know
you know it doesn't have any concept of
a file or anything so
you just start a transaction and then
you annotate every block put
with that transaction and that allows us
to not
collect those blocks if there happens to
be a gc before you commit
and this is fully concurrent so there's
there are no no global locks
and yeah rights rights can proceed
concurrently but that's not all there
was plenty more in 2020 so we
managed to increase the the bandwidth of
uploads and downloads by about 4x
mainly by increasing the the maximum
block size
we've sped up navigating around your
file system by about 10x by an
improvement to tree
and we made saving text files seven
times faster
but by far and away the biggest
highlight for us
in in 2020 was uh being awarded a
horizon 2020 next generation internet
architects grant
uh to extend our decentralized social
media capabilities
so this is what we're going to spend
most of the next year working on
so that within those plans we we're
going to extend the social feed to allow
more general posting
and commenting we're going to implement
decentralized group messaging
specifically not using the mls protocol
as well as an email bridge so there's
plenty of fun stuff coming
so thank you very much if you want to
hear more then go check out our website
or
sign up to a beta or you can ask
questions in the chat thank you very
much
wow ian uh thanks this is the point at
which i'm supposed to say thank you
and say something to summarize what you
just said but like i
i don't even know where to start um
pierce has clearly been busy
in the last year and that's a lot of
really
impressive really cool user facing
features
and thank you for the inside scoop on
what you've got coming up in your beta
if folks want to learn more about peer
grasses vision for the private web
please visit peergas.org or at paragus
on twitter i'm kind of overwhelmed so
thank you
um next i want to introduce everybody to
victor of
humanoid who has a really interesting
presentation on human beings as a trust
lair on top of ipfs
victor are you good to go yes i'm good
to go thank you jessica
excellent feel free to share your screen
hey everyone my name is victor i'm a
core member of the humanoid team
we're building a distributed financial
system where one human equals one node
like uh or as we say in ipfs community
one human equals one replica why
uh well every public permissionless
now their blockchain networked they are
based their security on
capital they base security either on
state tokens
or on equipment of miners and
well these this approach is susceptible
to external attacks
like when you have a network with higher
capitalization that this one
it can easily attack it either directly
by an out
assets or it will create a secondary
market
outside the target network
and basically manipulate the price of
the asset
in eventually buying out the target
network asset and attacking
this permissionless network and what
we're doing in humanoid our security is
based on collective verification
of human existence and all people who
became humanoids
uh i have to say frankly we had that
idea like almost for three years
but we had no idea how to implement that
and it became possible only in 2020
thanks to advances in biometrics
especially leaveness detection
thanks to advanced and matching of fully
homomorphic encrypted biometric data
thanks to the private computations in
permissionless manner by
uh guys from enigma and of course
well huge kudos to the protocol labs
team uh
for inventing and implementing the
miracle certainty cluster
well basically when we have a network
where one human
equals one node that is capable of
financial transfers
that means that the fees that the
network that the protocol collects
will be divided equally among every
human now
as there is no block reward because
again we're
using the fpfs invention which is uh
miracle certainty
any monetary system can be built upon
without these block rewards
and uh moreover
it opens uh doors and the way to the
one human one vote decentralized
organizations
and as you have seen the like state
tokens tao
are just terrible at the moment
well uh thanks to the blockless nature
of miracles30t
uh we've got pretty cool features there
compared to blockchain
uh first less redundant metadata
and the second flexible transaction
persistence time
that means that uh if you're sending
like
ten dollars to your friend and you don't
really want to pay the cost
of this for this transaction for this
data to be kept forever
uh what we can do with merkel sure dt uh
we can unpin the data from ipfs
not hold it anymore and basically the
costs
become lower and lower
of course if you want to keep the
transactions feel the heat death of the
universe
you're always welcome now
how do we implement ipfs here and
where do we use it basically everywhere
uh and uh let's start from the
like creation of humanoid okay
uh what we do we
ask people to scan their biometric
modalities
yes first we're using like external
biometric modalities
uh face recognition fingerprint
and iris recognition are among the most
advanced for example
uh but you know later if we find out
that that's not enough for security
uh we're also going to introduce in
internal biometrics
uh that means neurosignature
with brain computer interfaces or dna
but let's
go to the slide which explains how can
you create a human node and like how the
system works
we have three actors here it's a
client device public ipfs cluster
and a private smart contract so
this public ipfs cluster it actually
gets
uh well it's public uh
you will ask how we can put biometrics
such as sensitive data there
well we first encrypt it with fully
homomorphic encryption
right on the client device and only then
we send it to the ipfs cluster
basically when a potential human node
submits its
encrypted feature vector from the
biometric modalities
the public fs cluster performs
one-to-many computations over that data
to find out whether this person was a
humanoid before
or he's really a new one
well basically after that we get the
score we get the score that tells us
has he been there before or not and uh
this core is then sent through the
client device to private smart contract
this core is again encrypted we have to
decrypt it
right there in the private smart
contract and
the private smart contract understands
what this core
means and then he authorizes the public
key
of the client to
have a validator key or not to have it
so now we like have permission for a new
human node to finally join the network
let's look
at how the network looks like
uh yeah here we came up with a nice
figure for miracle certainty but
uh i'll jump straight to the tech
we reuse existing tools from the ipfs
project
to implement networking and then the
replication
level here we use miracle certity for
the state duplication
and it becomes possible now to implement
a key value store
which looks like miracle trees
in aavl from cosmos
so thanks to the protocol labs team we
can leverage a data store component that
provides a unified interface
to access data uh we're picking a
distributed go data store implementation
using merkle certity
well it is basically based on the badger
db as permanent storage
it uses uh leapfd pops up and the
provided pops up broadcaster as
a broadcaster component uh a
user-defined
dac synchro component to publish and
retrieve miracle dax to the network
and uh for the interface the node
initializes an ipfs light client
so thank very much ipfs team
and protocol labs you were a great
inspiration for us
uh basically when all the external
components
are properly mounted the data store is
ready to be
used by an old instance since it's a key
value store
we use prefixes to define separate data
buckets
and well here for the application logic
which represents transaction processing
and validation logic we defined two sets
of buckets
the first set includes epochs which we
use instead of blocks in classic
blockchains
and each epoch has a number as a key
that points to a list of transactions
and on application level again
transactions
uh which is a bucket holding set of
confirmed transactions
and consensus participants here decide
whether to include or not to include
transaction
into that set uh if the transaction is
confirmed
it's cid content identifier
and validator signatures are added to
the set
and the body will be replaced through
dac syncer
well basically the second bucket
represents uh accounts and validators
well this is this is where we like
combined the knowledge that we have
from the public blockchains
cosmos mainly and ipfs and this
is how we'll build the humanoid network
thank you
thank you very much victor there's
a lot to take in there that is
absolutely fascinating and some really
versatile and multi-faceted uses of the
ipfs
stack some really interesting takes on
governance also appreciate your
sylvester stallone cameo that you got in
there so thank you for that
if you have any questions please drop
them in the chat for victor
also you can keep tabs on what human
node is up to
next on twitter at human underscore
node um we will keep things rolling
along
as much as i have all sorts of questions
too um but
we'll keep things moving along because
we have one more presentation today
that is sure to be fascinating uh
featuring
matt wisneski vault 74
decentralized peer-to-peer
communications matt
are you good to go yep thank you thank
you
feel free to share your screen sure um
okay
can you guys see it okay looks good cool
so i don't have any
beautiful slides to show you guys
unfortunately all the slides look great
by the way guys it was awesome um
so i'm gonna go over a little bit of a
tech demo and hopefully
uh show you guys why you should care
about your privacy um
and get people that might be new to the
decentralized web a little bit excited
about it
excited about ipfs and hopefully excited
about what we're working on
um so vault 74 is a decentralized chat
built on top of ipfs
it uses textile as a middle layer to
interface with ipfs
and the goal of fault 74 is to build a
application where you can screen share
you can video chat
file share and you know host meetings do
everything you want to do with the
normal
application and hopefully abstract all
the crypto stuff behind the scenes so
you know people who aren't enthusiasts
can jump in and use it and
you know learn about why blockchain is
awesome afterwards
um so we've got uh servers to
communicate with large groups
you can send firm requests which right
now are smart contract uh
powered everything in the application is
built to be configurable so you can swap
out classes as long as you use the same
interface
you can we have here right now for
textile or database
protocol you can switch that out with
whatever you want um the idea is to
build the app
as a springboard and then hopefully have
the community drive what the best
solutions are for the application
um we have built in here
um let's see um embeds
um so you could send links um you can
send
you know your favorite music playlists
um or your addresses to get paid
um whatever you want to do you you know
it
it supports all the stuff you would
expect in the application again that's
the goal is to have everything
kind of like you would see in slack
discord or anything else and just kind
of
you know take away the tech side of
things and you know as exciting as the
decentralized web is
um it needs to not be a pain point for
people to adopt it
um so that's kind of our our methodology
up front um
we also support payments um again this
is a um
that might mess up my screen share a
little bit but um again this is
something that can be swapped out
um for different uh crypto payments and
hopefully fiat in the future but
that's not our focus right now um again
the use of ipfs
is implemented for file sharing um so
you can upload files
you know uh let's see straight through
the the inline
uploader and then you know you get the
links to the files and everything like
that
you can also send them straight to um
your friends oh
sorry having issues with the the lovely
m1 mac
um let me get this uh refresh real quick
um you can share files in line with your
friends and stuff like that as well
um so if i go through
and let's see i can either copy paste
the files
or i can upload them directly through
the um
the upload tool um right now we're just
uploading them straight through the ipfs
library we plan to also use textile
buckets in the future that way they're
automatically pinned
and we have better management of those
files per user
um and yeah uh i won't demo calling and
stuff like that i mean
it works but it's kind of awkward to
demo on a call
um you can configure everything
shield your eyes you know business
people they like like themes so
we have like themes we have a bunch of
different themes based um
uh largely around the different uh uh
themes in my editor that i just kind of
took the colors from but
you know you can make it look like
whatever you want to look like
we're actually you know if you are
excited about it you can earn some
badges
kind of superficial but cool for the
future
to show how you contribute to the
project again everything is configurable
you can choose your own bit rate
everything's going through a
peer-to-peer network
which you have signatures before the
pure connection is established to ensure
you're talking to who you think you're
talking to
and then you can stream it as high at
bitrate as webrtc allows
provided your connection can handle it
the application is 100
99 serverless we have a peer-to-peer
signaling server right now but
um i have ideas to uh put that on ipfs
as well so
the end goal is to have the the
application be completely serverless you
can
load it on usb drive you can throw it
wherever you want um and you don't have
to worry about anyone in the middle
uh snipping on your data or your privacy
um it's got a bunch of other stuff
like keybinds we plan to support
authentication via hardware wallets
right now it's going through metamask
that's soon to be
abstracted as a secondary option and use
local accounts
as a default option they're all our
contracts are public
um the entire code base is public so if
you guys
do want to look at what we got going on
um you can uh go on the github and you
know check out all the code you
really shouldn't trust anything you
can't see the code um so
yeah that's that's the bulk of it um we
are
looking at uh some more solutions um
everything is
um right now mostly going through
textile
um we are looking at uh different chains
like matic and stuff like that as
options for different protocols in the
settings
um but uh let's see what else
could i demo yeah i think that's that's
um that's pretty much the bulk of uh
of what we have going on with the
application um
there's a lot of planning ahead for
content creators um i come from a uh
background in content creation so
we're sort of targeting that space first
as well as the uh the gaming space
this is the community i know well um so
uh
a lot of the streamers content creators
are
facing dcma issues um issues with
uh copyright holders flagging their
content whether for justified or
unjustified reasons so
um servers will also have integrations
to a lot of social platforms so
let's say this event went live on ipfs's
uh
server it would automatically have a now
live channel pop
up where people can chat and um and
interface
with the um presentation um show your
support with uh crypto donations or
whatever you might want to do with that
um in addition
with our spotify integrations you know
if you do want to host music that maybe
you don't own the copyright too
spotify is a great listen along feature
so we can sync that up with the videos
as far as the files we're also looking
into redoing this editor to have
folders and more of a dropbox-like
solution
um we also are looking into having
desktop sync so
any files you upload to folders on vault
you can add that as a synced folder
and then share that folder with your
friends to also have them sync files so
good for business and um you know even
just
friends sharing um you know maybe
thanksgiving videos where they all did
something crazy or whatever
um you can have those files synced
between uh users automatically
um and let's see yeah uh so
the tech stack right now um most of the
identities are ethereum smart contracts
um
looking into other options for that um
we're not
sure if we're gonna switch that out it
really depends on
the near future with ethereum and how
quick it's going to be
and with that all the firm requests and
stuff
are also sent through those smart
contracts
right now you just send an ethereum
address and it looks up on a registry to
see if that user exists
we're also going to have the traditional
username
pound some number identifier in a
registry to look up addresses in a
cleaner way
[Music]
yeah super excited about um ipfs to see
where it goes and hopefully uh
hopefully this brings a attainable um
i guess interface to the decentralized
web to a lot of people
um i think privacy is super important
and i think people are finally starting
to care especially with the
the recent whatsapp stuff and um just
our current uh
current world and hopefully uh we hope
to make that easy for people
and do it in a way that is directly used
for them
day to day um so yeah that's that's
basically it i guess i can
you know if there's any questions or
whatever um i could take those or
yeah ladies and gents and everyone in
between let's hear it from matt wisneski
with
vault 74. um i also want to
single-handedly thank you for
wrecking the productivity of everybody
else for the rest of the day
as we all go to download this and play
with it i appreciate it
you got any questions drop them in the
chat
um i was trying to sneakily put in
like a gif in our slide deck of the like
head exploding emoji but i was too busy
watching all of this happen
uh we will leave the uh we'll leave the
the
stream open for just a little a couple
of minutes longer
um if anybody has any questions or any
discussion um
just to leave this is a bit of an open
channel for a few minutes but we will
see you next
month if you want to get more
information on
this meetup which does happen every
month or really anything else in the
ipfs universe
follow us on twitter find us on youtube
we also have a
fantastic weekly newsletter that you can
subscribe to
all of those links are in the chat if
you're listening after the fact and
can't see the chat
probably the best place to start is
ipfs.io
or at ipfs on twitter we'll send you
down the rabbit hole of everything else
that you need i want to give a big big
thank you to
everybody thank you for joining us thank
you for taking the time to attend
and we hope you have a wonderful rest of
your day and rest of your weekend
[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Applause]
do
[Music]
so
[Applause]
[Music]
okay
anyways
[Music]
[Laughter]
so
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
do
[Music]
you